- [Instructor] The final step
in our continuous integration pipeline,
we'll publish the container image
to the organization's container registry on GitHub.
To get started,
we'll need to add another environment variable
into our pipeline.
This variable is going to store the URL
of our container registry.
So here I'll start with the protocol,
and then I'm going to use a placeholder
to refer to the container registry variable
that we created earlier in the course.
Now I'm going to go ahead and copy this variable
because we'll use it within the final stage of our pipeline
that publishes the container image.
Inside of the steps block for this stage,
I'm going to add a script block.
This will allow us to include some groovy code
that works with the Docker pipeline plugin.
The Docker pipeline plugin allows us to configure
our pipeline to use a custom container registry.
That way, if we have steps in the pipeline
that work with Docker,
they don't use the default registry, which is Docker hub.
To use a custom registry with the plugin,
we wrap our pipeline steps within the withRegistry method.
This method requires two parameters.
The first parameter that we'll need to provide
is the URL of our container registry.
So here, I'm just going to add a placeholder
for our container registry URL variable
that we just created.
The second parameter that's required
are the credentials that we'll use to authenticate
with the container registry.
Now you'll recall that earlier in the course,
we created a Jenkins credential named github-pat,
that stored our personal access token.
We're going to provide that here.
So Docker can authenticate with GitHub.
Then we're going to go ahead and add a block
for this method.
Inside of the block, we're going to add a shell step
that will execute the Docker push command,
which will push our container image to the registry.
Now, here we need to provide an image tag.
So I'm going to add a placeholder
that refers to the image tag variable we created
within the environment block of our pipeline.
Okay, now our pipelines all set up
to publish our container image.
Let's head over to the terminal
and within the room service directory,
I'm going to go ahead and stage these changes,
and then I'm going to commit them.
We'll say that we're publishing our container image.
And then once we've created the commit,
we can push it over to GitHub.
This will trigger Jenkins to start initiating the build.
So let's do that.
And then we'll head over to Jenkins
where we can wait for our build to start executing.
There we see the build, enter the queue,
let's step into the pipeline and watch it execute.
There it's starting to enter the final stage
that pushes the container image.
And it appears that our Jenkins build was successful.
Let's head over to GitHub,
and we can verify that the package
was pushed to our organization.
All we need to do is click on the packages tab
within our organization,
and there we can see the new container image.
Let's go ahead and click on it.
Excellent, there's our container image,
and you can see the image tag that was assigned to it.
So that wraps things up for the continuous integration phase
of our delivery process.
We're going to move on now to the next chapter
where we'll take a look at continuous delivery
and continuous deployment.